The prettiest lesson we showed you how you can get your latitude and longitude using that geo location
from navigator within your web browser.
So the next thing that we wanted to do is we want to map today so we need a map.
And the good thing is that maps are already built.
There's really great javascript libraries for maps.
And one of them is available from Google.
They have Google Maps API and basically build out the map and all you have to do is passen your latitude
and longitude.
And now that we saw how we can get that the next step is to show you how to use a library so that's
going to be one of the first libraries.
And there's a ton of great libraries javascript libraries out there online and basically a library is
a javascript file that's got a bunch of javascript code in it already to go and it creates some amazing
functionality that you don't have to worry about coding so it's as simple as whenever we build up our
own G-S files and we link to them.
We're going to be doing the same thing but we're going to be linking to a javascript library.
And for the Google Maps API you do need to get an API key and the key is they're free to use all you
need is a Google account.
So if you have a Google account that you can go over to developers dot Google dot com forward slash
maps for Slash document for it slash javascript for its slash get API key and click the blue get a key
and then within here you can just create a new project and simply enable an API key and it will just
take a few seconds and it'll spit out an API key that you can use for Google Maps.
So this is the key that I'm going to be able to use within my Google Maps.
So once you've got that copy that and I'm actually going to remove this one so by time you're watching
this less than this one is not going to be active anymore.
So you do have to get your own Google Maps API key for javascript or if you can find one on line.
Sure there's some out there online as well.
So grab your API key copy it and let's go back into our script.
And usually what I like to do for key is is I like to just kind of comment them in here so that I'm
ready to go to continue working with my application.
So the next thing that we want to do is we want to bring a library in and just as before we saw we can
bring in a library and we can just specify the source.
So going way way back in the early part of this course we specify a source and we need a path to that
source.
So the path is going to be it's going to be quite long.
So
I'll just I just get actually pasted in here.
And the only thing that you need to change is you're going to have to actually change your key.
So paste it in with the key.
So this is going to be the source.
And then here is where we take our key and paste it in.
So basically this is going to bring in this javascript library and this is going to allow us to use
the javascript library within our application.
And what the javascript library does is it allows us to build a map.
So the other thing that we do need to do is we need to set a placeholder so you can call this whatever
you want.
You can just call it map if you want going to give an idea of map.
So it's a blank element on your H-2 mail.
And this is where Google from their javascript library is going to know how to build them up.
So it's got all of the components to build up the map.
All you need to do is pass in the latitude and longitude.
And we saw how we can pick that up within the previous the previous lesson.
So the maps do require some parameters that you can pass in and latitude longitude and there's also
the zoom level and there's also a bunch of other parameters as well.
So these these are just options.
So you can call that whatever you want.
It's just a regular javascript object anes.
So this basically tells what we want to center the map on.
And we want to center it on data and the coordinates
so it has data coordinates and latitude and hopefully from the previous lesson you were able to pull
back your latitude and longitude and next.
Let's set up longitude.
So this is going to be data coordinates and longitude.
So this actually this information is coming from the data that's being returned from the javascript
get current position.
So all we're doing is we're passing that information that we're picking up into place map or place map
function retrieves that data and then we're making use of it within our javascript and we're actually
then passing that information along over into Google.
And as you probably realize you can customize the latitude and longitude.
So you don't need actually to pick up your latitude and longitude.
This is just for this exercise.
You can zoom them up here and you can set it to whatever position you want.
So I'm going to zoom in zoom level of five.
And then lastly what we need to do is we need to put that value on a map.
So let's create a variable.
Call it map or whatever you want to call it.
And so this is brand new Google functionality that's available.
So Google Maps map.
And then within here this is where we're grabbing our parameters.
So the first thing that we need to do is we need to set where we're sending this map information over
to.
And we know we're sending it over to the div with the ID map.
So let's let's set that up as well.
So we'll just call it.
And and we're going to do our regular document's get element by id and let's grab that element with
the ID of map and then over here is where we're going to pass that values going to.
First it needs two parameters.
So the first thing that we need to do is pass over the object that we want to place the content in.
And then next we can pass in some options here.
And one other thing before we actually try and launch this we actually need to set a height for the
map because by default we don't have any contents in there and we do need to set a height.
So let's just set it at 100 percent.
And now let's reload the page so now we should be able to see our map.
So go ahead and allow that.
And there we go.
So now we've got our map and it's zeroing in on our coordinates.
And I'll let you know I am in the Toronto area so it is picking up the coordinates from my browser.
It's passing those along into the Google maps and show me the map of where I'm located.
And there is quite a lot more you can do with the Google Maps.
This is just a quick sampling of what's available.
So what I want to do now is try it for yourself and get comfortable with bringing in javascript libraries
and then also get comfortable with what is available and what values you can use within your javascript
within your browser API that you can then use within these javascript libraries so you can output that
content.
So try this out for yourself.
And also you're welcome to go through the Google maps and see all the different really cool things you
can do with the Google maps.
There are quite a lot of other things that you can do as well.
And there's a lot of great information here so do take some time and do check it out and do get familiar
with bringing in libraries into your javascript.